# PriorDetectionOfEpilepticSeizure
**Project Title**: CLASSIFICATION OF EEG SIGNALS EXTRACTED PRIOR TO THE EPILEPTIC SEIZURE TO DETECT ITS ONSET FOR PATIENT-SPECIFIC CASE  
**Date Completed**: 2018 AD  
**ABSTRACT**: The project “Classification of EEG signals extracted prior to the epileptic seizure to detect its onset for patient-specific case” is basically focused on detecting epileptic seizures in epileptic people. The mechanism of detection of epileptic seizures is clinically shown to act over seconds to minutes before seizure onset. The unpredictable nature of seizures poses risks for individuals with epilepsy. The automatic detection of oncoming seizures before their actual onset can facilitate timely intervention and hence minimize the risks. The early detection of epileptic seizures is possible based on various technical parameters. This project presents the concept of wavelet transform (Discrete Wavelet Transform) for the energy calculation of EEG signals coming from epileptic people and the Artificial Neural network concept for the classification. The frequency transformation of EEG signals has helped with the energy calculation of the EEG signal on both the frequency and time domains. For this, we implemented a wavelet transform on EEG sample signals (obtained from the CHB-MIT database) to transform signals into the frequency domain and analyze the change in energy level, which helps to detect the pattern of EEG signals before epilepsy. Then, we used a Neural Network for the classification technique. We performed the process of energy calculation, implementation of DWT, and classification using an ANN of EEG sample signals on a platform called MATLAB (Matrix Laboratory).
The proper calculation of the change in energy during and before the onset of the seizure is described in this report. Using FFT, we transformed the time domain signal to the frequency signal. Due to the advantages of DWT over FFT, we used DWT for further processing. We calculated the frequency domain energy of the first patient’s EEG signal samples using DWT and then applied the ANN technique for the classification. The first patient had 41 files, which consisted of 1 hour of EEG data in each. Of these, 7 files have samples with seizures and the remaining files don’t have samples with seizures. We implemented DWT for 41 files, which consist of 1 hour of EEG data each. After the DWT implementation and classification using the Neural Network Tool of MATLAB, we got 97.5% accuracy.
